Hi Ed, how are you doing this morning?
Oh, very good thank you.
I am just testing fine.
If this thing starts clicking, you'll see me come over there and buy a ton of copies.
And where's my cough button?
Okay, first of all I'll ask you what's your definition of science fiction?
My definition of science fiction is pretty vague.
Aside from weaseling out of the definition, which I ordinarily do when people ask me that
because I keep pointing out all the exceptions that can be made to almost any definition,
I finally get backed around into a corner where I suggest that first of all, science fiction
is essentially the same as any other fiction.
It's fiction about people, about characters, about the relationships between one character
and another or one character in a group, which may be society, with the difference from mainstream
fiction being that in science fiction there is some sort of scientific or technological development
which is important to the story and which affects those human relationships between person
and other person or person and people as a group.
Okay, you're a science fiction writer.
What occurred in your background to point you in the direction of A being a writer and B
being a science fiction writer as opposed to something else, some of the genre?
I think probably growing up as an alien in an alien land, my family reared me in rural Wyoming.
I was a product of a ranch background and in this environment, I didn't have any younger brothers
or sisters who are anywhere close to my age.
I didn't have any neighbor kids to play with so I had to learn to amuse myself for a good many years.
I also didn't particularly like living in the rural west and so I sought escape
and these things coalesced into reading a lot of science fiction and fantasy
and I suspect that because of this ill spent background as a kid that when I started writing
I naturally tended to write the sorts of things that I'd read so often.
By no means did I read only science fiction or fantasy and a case could be made for
why didn't I write sea stories or dog stories or biographies of American heroes
but still science fiction and fantasy had been in the ascendancy
and so that's what I started writing.
You grew up in the Sputnik era as I did and it influenced me a lot.
What I later became, were you influenced by those heady days of the space race and science and that sort of thing?
It's a terrible thing to admit but unlike when John F. Kennedy died
which is one test of anyone who was of thinking age in 1963
I cannot remember in 1957 what I was doing when I heard about Sputnik
almost anyone else who is my age who is writing or reading science fiction
can remember exactly what they were doing and how they felt when the Russian satellite went up.
I have blanked it completely out of my history.
It's possible that I connected with some horrible incident in my childhood and that's why I can't recall it.
At the same time certainly the Sputnik inspired influence on American education
is something that I can remember because it must have been about that time
that people in my school as in schools everywhere else around America were urging me to get into some sort of scientific or technical career
and this was probably the first step in the process that led to my taking up an aerospace engineering major in college
which was something that I soon junked but at the time I found myself in that sort of technically oriented program
which I had simply never questioned because at that time, that place, I was in a culture specifically Southern Wyoming
which said that if I were college bound and male, I would end up being an engineer and that was that
and there were no other alternatives. God knows, no one was supposed to end up going into say writing for a career that was unheard of.
Your clarion product, how much influence did this have on your career, this clarion background?
It had an incalculable effect or maybe it is calculable in the sense that I probably, quite possibly wouldn't have a professional writing career
had it not been for clarion. I went to the first of the clarion workshops in the summer of 1967, 68.
I think I am getting to be senile. I went to the first clarion workshop in 1968 and of course there was no pre-existing clarion mystique.
That was the first one. I went because I was bored with having gone through five straight years of undergraduate and graduate work.
I didn't know what I was going to be when I grew up, certainly not what I was going to be when I got out of graduate school.
I was being programmed once again this time to handle six composition courses in a junior college, something like that.
So at clarion I met for the first time working writers. This had never happened before.
I didn't know what professional writing was all about. All I knew was that like most of the other people at the workshop
I had been a real hotshot in college writing courses and in English classes in high school
and I had no idea exactly how bad a writer I actually was.
So I had the opportunity to meet very rigorous critics such as Judith Merrill or Kate Wilhelm or Damon Knight
and met for the first time such people as Fritz Leiber and Robin Wilson and Harlan Ellison.
And this was an incredible illumination for me.
I got to find out what people who actually got their stories and their books published were like, how they did it.
I had had no conception of the professional side of writing.
And again this was revelatory to me. But most of all I was up against people who knew what writing was about
and who could read my work and tell me how incredibly awful it was.
But more important than that to tell me what I was doing wrong and extend some of the possibilities that I could try for trying to improve my work.
The information I have indicates that pretty soon after Clarion, Harlan Ellison was your mentor or some word.
Did this also have a positive influence on your career? Would you be where you are today without that?
I might or might not be. I don't know. I wouldn't be as far along in my career had that not happened.
What actually happened at Clarion was I had the dubious distinction of writing the first story by any Clarion writer that was accepted for professional publication.
And that was simply because during the week that Harlan was the guest writer, I wrote a from scratch story.
All my other stories had been rewrites of stories I'd done for college classes and had been uniformly trashed by everyone present.
Then I did a completely original story at the next week presented to Harlan who then turned around and bought it as one of the first couple of stories
he was purchasing for the again dangerous visions anthologies anthology.
And this had a great positive reinforcement because I was getting $150 in pre-inflation, $1968.
I had the ego boost of knowing that my story was going to be in a book which would be in bookstores, non-library shelves.
And of course immediately I had the fantasy that this was going to become a major motion picture.
There'd be a spin-off series. There'd be serialized in McCalls and so forth and so on.
I'd be on the Dick Cavett show and the Tomorrow Show and Tonight Show this morning show.
But of course it didn't happen that way.
But at the same time Harlan was responsible for my first professional sale.
After that as our relationship extended and not only was my editor but he became a close personal friend as well,
I took up his invitation to visit in Southern California and encountered yet another alien culture that I wasn't used to.
And I was a peculiar sort of apprenticeship and I don't think apprenticeship is so far off as a term.
I got to observe Harlan's professional life. I saw how he functioned as a writer.
I got to see through Harlan how other writers functioned each in his or her own way as a writer.
But particularly with Harlan I got to see again that professional side of writing.
I got to see how Harlan coped with agents, editors, script editors, publishers, art directors and so forth and so on.
And it was very, very important to me to learn such things from Harlan as ways I could pursue to safeguard the integrity of my work
from the point it left my typewriter to the point at which it appeared in print on the page.
The collaboration with Ellison which came out as Phoenix Without Ash has must have taught you a lot about how you interact
and preserve the integrity of work with the studio. How did that collaboration work?
I got a call from Harlan one day saying, I'd already known about the series The Star Lost that he was going to do.
It was a syndicated, videotaped science fiction series, at first a mini series that was to be done with joint U.S. Canadian participation
and taped in Toronto. And it sounded like a great idea. This was going to be an adult television series.
So Harlan contacted me saying that he would like to see a novel written based on his pilot script for the series.
And this of course was before the series started to be subverted by the various elements that finally caused Harlan to pull out his name
and his participation from the show and to condemn the program in print before it actually ever went on the air.
And he simply offered me the opportunity to write a book based on the first script with an amazing amount of freedom.
He said that he trusted me. He trusted me professionally. And therefore, since after all, the script was only 62 pages long
and I was expected to come up with something like 260 pages of manuscript for the novel itself.
I had carte blanche as far as developing new subsidiary characters, subplots, expanding on the existing characters and plots.
Essentially, I could do whatever I wanted to as long as I remained true to the spirit of what Harlan had already done.
And I immediately was seized with an overwhelming sense of responsibility that caused me to stop writing altogether
until I was very close to the deadline for this book. And then I essentially did the work in something like three weeks.
Now, when I was done with the manuscript and shipped it off to Harlan, I waited with a great deal of apprehension to see how the man was going to react.
And we actually didn't have a whole lot to quarrel about. Harlan was essentially happy with what I'd done.
There was only one major plot thing that he took issue about. And that was I had decided to have the heroine loser virginity in this book.
Harlan argued with this saying that he had this great scene plan for her to lose her virginity in the second book in the series.
So not wanting to waste work, how can I put this delicately, I simply rewrote my scene so that it was basically all there except that she did not lose her virginity at the end.
Harlan had his plot machination, I was still able to keep what I thought was a decent scene.
Unfortunately, the second novel in the series, and Harlan and I had planned out three, has never been written and so has never appeared.
And naturally, neither has the third. There is that possibility, but Harlan stays very, very busy.
And the opportunity simply hasn't come up to do any of the other books in the series.
So it's just a heavy padding scene instead of a...
It's a frustrating scene.
It looks like she already gained her virginity a long while.
A long while.
Okay, now we get sticky. Okay. Other than that collaboration you have written and sold to the public only short stories.
Why do you work in the short story medium as opposed to a novel medium?
It's not a matter of conscious choice. I write what I do because that is what I do.
I plan to write novels. Of course, I've been planning to write novels for a long time.
My publisher is expecting by October 1st a novel which was originally contracted in 1974.
And this is a long while to be dithering about completing the book.
Short stories for whatever reason, and I can't consciously point them out.
I can't point out the why have just always seemed to me the appropriate medium that I should work in.
In some ways, to degree, I feel like short stories are mini novels
because I have often spent much more time in terms of working out the characterizations,
the plots and so forth and so on.
Then the amount of space in that short story would indicate.
And there are stories of mine that seem to me to be almost compressed novels
that under other circumstances were I more a prolific writer.
I probably could have expanded them out another 54,000 words and got a nice paperback original novel.
But I like to work with the compression sometimes.
I like to pack an incredible amount, which is a risk of course
because I fully recognize that a lot of people who read my stuff don't care to deal in that sort of thing.
They don't want to have to worry about putting that kind of energy into reading a short story
that they might ordinarily apply to at least starting to approach a novel.
Are you familiar with the MacArthur Prize?
They just select people of great promise.
Oh yeah, right.
Scenario, you get a knock on the door one day and they say,
Ed, you're going to get $100,000 a year tax-free every year for life.
Would you write a novel?
Is the urge to write a novel commercially induced or is it bubbling in there and you got to write it?
I think it's probably the second.
I can imagine myself getting $100,000 a year for life, something like that,
and just becoming a parasite, spending the rest of my life in enforced idleness,
and not only not writing novels but also not writing short stories.
I hope that wouldn't happen.
That's a parallel to the question about what would you do on a desert island
if you had the bottles to put the manuscript in and ship them off into the water
and if you had the paper and so forth and so on, but you had no guarantee that anyone would read your manuscript, would you still write?
It's a great parlor game and I think that I'm being honest when I say,
yeah, sure, I'd continue writing but I wouldn't know for certain until I'd actually tried it.
And with the matter of my income being provided,
I think I really believe that there are things that I want to write about
that I can treat much better as novels but I can't have short stories and I think I would do that.
I think right now the bottleneck factor is that I haven't done a scratch novel that's worked.
I've done Phoenix which is a novelization.
I've done Cinnabar which is a sort of piece work novel made up of parts that were originally published as short stories.
And I've done a 60,000 word novel which remains in my files, has never been rewritten, has never been submitted professionally,
is not science fiction or fantasy.
It's the traditional college novel that editors know and abominate.
They get thousands of them every year.
They're the novels that people write just after college in which the young writer says,
well, I have come of age in this society and here are the wonderful truths that I have learned
and they put all this into fiction and it's usually just pretty terrible stuff.
Cinnabar came out.
I picked it up because the science fiction review monthly said, let's see, have the quote,
imagine the dying earth written by Moorcock at his very best.
Couldn't have written the word better myself.
That was a good idea. I gotta read this.
Give me a little bit of background how these stories evolved, what you had pictured
and how they developed that sort of thing with this group of stories.
Right.
Well, no matter what the short story or a novel and no matter how complex the ultimate product might be,
originally there always is the single image somewhere along the line that everything else generated from.
In the case of Cinnabar, I suppose the overriding image is the city itself,
the city that exists presumably millions of years in our future
and may or may not exist here on earth.
That's never really spelled out nor did I feel it important to do so.
Although I suspect to pin down, I would suggest that Cinnabar is probably very close to Phoenix, Arizona.
I shouldn't be surprised.
But in the late 1960s, I just had the image of the far future, very colorful, emerald city of Oz,
sort of apparition wavering out there on the desert horizon.
And of course, once the image was there, then all the questions of both fiction in general and science fiction in particular
generated such as, okay, what is that city all about? Who lives there? What do they do?
I wanted to write about a city of such sophistication and decadence that science and technology, as Arthur C. Clarke put it in a different context,
might as well be magic.
And I wanted to, in terms of the human element, investigate what would people do with their access to immortality,
with their access to technological powers beyond compare?
Would their lives be any less screwed up than they are now in 20th century America or not?
So again, I was going back to that original premise that I believe in, that good fiction is about people and their relationships.
And if you have access to physical immortality, for example, how does this affect your relationship with the people that are closest to you
and the people that you interact with every day on the street?
And that's what Cinnabar finally is all about.
And it came as a great surprise to me as I wrote these stories about that fabulous city, that there was an all over structure
that seemed to be coming out independent of each individual story.
And that's why when you read the stories altogether in a book, I feel there is a clear cut beginning and a clear cut ending
and there is a progress made through the stories almost as though one were reading a from scratch novel,
even though of course it isn't.
I weasel a lot with the definition of what is a novel there and what isn't.
But still the background is the same from story to story.
Most of the characters are the same from story to story.
The image of the city and not the characters is what developed first.
Yes.
Okay.
The characters are quite memorable and the names are intriguing too.
Did those just surface?
Did you have to work hard to develop these characters?
Oh, unlike Isaac Asimov, I don't keep incredibly detailed journals of every hour of every day of my life.
And probably I should because I have, for example, I have a vague memory with one of the primary characters in Cinnabar,
Tourmaline Hayes, the network star, that her name was originally something else, some other gemstone.
And I seem to recall doodling on a piece of paper, things like, let's see,
Sapphire Hayes, Emerald Hayes, Ruby Hayes and so forth and so on, until finally I came up with Tourmaline.
But why I picked that particular name, for example, with that particular character, I can't tell you now.
I don't know if it's a generation of a character, trait, a name or whatever.
I know that there was a certain amount of floundering around at the time.
Of course, now the city title, strangely enough, came originally from a photograph of a horse.
My mother, in her living room, has a beautiful photograph of the head of a palomino.
This was a picture she told me about when I was growing up, because this was the horse that she used to ride in the summers
out at a dood ranch in Upstate New York called the Cinnabar.
And I'd always loved the sound of the word.
It conjured up all sorts of images for me that I think went far beyond your standard Upstate New York dood ranch.
And then later on I found out that the Cinnabar, one summer in the late 1930s, was where my father and mother had met.
The romance that led to their marriage and my consequent existence as a human being had all come from that.
But originally there was that image of the palomino there on the wall at the Cinnabar,
and that was the first time I knew about the city and that was the first time I started speculating about it.
That's her title.
So that's her kingdom.
Okay.
In the acknowledgments in Cinnabar, you mentioned Joan Bernat, who pioneered in the writing of Cinnabar's stories.
I'm not familiar with her.
What kind of stories did she write or what did she do that inspired her?
Joan Bernat was a very good writer at the early Clarion workshop.
Joan Bernat was a very good writer who did a number of stories at the early Clarion workshops,
which were published in various anthologies and I have no idea where she is now.
But at one point in the workshop we'd done an exercise in which each of us came up with various narrative hooks,
first lines of stories which were calculated to catch the interest of the reader.
And I had done a story hook which went along the lines of,
oh, I think the road to Cinnabar was lined with the shells of burnt out school buses.
And I had no particular reason for coming up with this line other than to me it was interesting
and also this was vaguely tied in with my image of Cinnabar the city.
Well, a number of people in the workshop borrowed other people's narrative hooks and wrote stories around them.
And Joan Bernat actually did the first Cinnabar story in the sense that she wrote a story which started with that line.
And her Cinnabar was not quite the same as mine, but still there was something of the feeling about it,
the almost surrealistic image of the city wavering on the horizon,
the city which is totally cut off from the entire rest of the world.
In fact, for all intents and purposes is the entire world.
And so that's why Joan Bernat got the acknowledgement at the beginning of the book
because in that sense she did do the pioneering effort and did write the first Cinnabar story.
As far as I know that story has never been published and out of a sense of nostalgia
I would like to get my hands on a copy of the manuscript to see if the story is anything like I remember it from those summer days in 1968.
Have you ever considered writing any more Cinnabar stories, will we see any more?
I've thought about it. I have notes on several Cinnabar stories including the possibility of doing five novelettes
which would come together as another make-up novel about the character Jade Blue.
I have never completed any of these stories and perhaps I never will.
My publisher and I would like to do a new edition of Cinnabar with a brand new Cinnabar story in it.
But I don't know, I just haven't been able to do a Cinnabar story.
It may be that its time has passed in terms of my own professional nature.
The Cinnabar stories that I've got planned out would take place before the time of the stories in the book itself
because of course at the end of the book I don't think I'm giving away any plot secrets here.
Cinnabar is in the process of being destroyed and I've had no desire to write stories about Cinnabar after the fall.
But before there are still possibilities I would like to do for example a story about a man in Cinnabar
who comes up with the greatest decadent luxury anyone could have.
I thought for a long time about what single luxury would be the most decadent,
the most useless example of conspicuous affluence.
And I realized of course that probably what would be comprised in that would be having your own roller coaster.
I mean think how decadent to have your own roller coaster sitting out behind your house
which only you use or your friends of course.
And so immediately because I love roller coasters a lot started to design my own version of the ultimate roller coaster
and that is going to be the central image in that particular story if it's ever written.
Another Cinnabar story which is yet unwritten is what happens when Turmaline Hayes decides to have an enormous party
at which she invites every single one of her old lovers of which she has quite a few.
And this will simply be a party at which you have no idea whether it's going to be a romantic comedy or a murder mystery.
A lot of possibilities there.
The roller coaster might make for a nice book cover if they'll do it right.
Indeed.
Particle theory, the story, not the collection seemed a little bit unique to me because it was an analog story
and it was a little more of the hard science quote unquote than we usually see in your work.
Apparently this story evolved over a long period of time.
Correct.
Yes.
Okay.
Okay, I better go on for a while.
Was that supposed to pick up the ball there?
Say something, talk a minute.
Okay.
Okay, particle theory came about because I read a newspaper article about pion beam therapy using a stream of solid particles,
sub-nuclear particles to attack cancerous tumors, which I have just found out is a line of research that has just been abandoned down at Los Alamos.
I'm not sure why, whether it's funding cutbacks or whether they've simply found better means to attack the medical problem.
But at any rate, what had intrigued me a number of years ago in the paper is now apparently scientifically dead.
And yeah, this is more of a hard science story than I customarily write.
But I think it exhibits a more general principle, which is that I or every other writer who may not be all that soundly based in science and technology
by discipline or by vocation need simply only use the research tools that we all presumably learned in junior high to get across a hard science story
without being overly didactic about it.
What I discovered in this story was that the world is full of experts who were quite willing to share with me their specialized knowledge,
whether it was particle beam physics or whether it was the landscape around Los Alamos and little details for various similitudes such as
what airline do you fly into Los Alamos on and what sort of planes are you in and all of that kind of thing.
True, ordinarily I don't use quite so much scientific content.
All I can say is this was one of the stories in which that content seemed appropriate.
And it exhibits my own in a sense my own sense of frustration with being typecast.
I write what I like to write and sometimes that may be a story which is full of medical research about prostate cancer and particle beam therapy for that cancer
and cosmology all that.
And other times I will write science fiction stories in which there is not a speck of hard research or hard fact.
Again I suppose it illustrates the difference between facts and truths to be facile about it.
But it also shows that good research can cover a multitude of sins.
In this case it simply seemed appropriate.
I think this story for me is still a people story first and foremost.
It's again about relationships with people and the scientific content amplifies, illustrates and I hope clarifies those relationships.
But by God the people still come first and the science and technology come second.
Okay we've got ten minutes.
Okay I have two questions.
I'll cut it to two questions when you work and then I want to mention the Labor Day group.
Although I can try. I can be quicker in my answers.
No no no no.
My main regret in all this is that we always only have an hour or so because it gets pretty fat.
You guys probably don't like that the week. It's interesting.
Okay the story that blew me away in that collection was and I hope I get the pronunciation.
The Hibakusha Gallery.
Right.
Okay I don't like to ask where do you get your ideas but where do you get that idea.
That just...
Well the Hibakusha Gallery.
I'll be lying if I said that the Hibakusha Gallery didn't come from the central image.
Which is the strange gallery that is presumably in a near future America.
Where people come to have their pictures taken.
Standing behind the cutouts of nuclear blast survivors from Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
Where the faces of the original subjects of the photographs have been eliminated.
And the faces of the tourists have been substituted.
And of course the image goes back to the Jones Beach sort of tourist emporiums in New Jersey.
On the boardwalk where you stand behind the beach bunny or the muscle builder.
And your face is super imposed over there.
There you get souvenir photographs.
And I really can't tell you why that image came about originally.
Except that was the image.
The image was so incredibly powerful.
I didn't know what to do with it for a long time.
And I had a lot of false starts with that story.
I wrote that story and rewrote that story more completely than any other story I'd done up to that time.
I in some senses took two and a half years to write the story.
Because I couldn't quite get it right.
I kept adding all sorts of false plot elements that just didn't work out.
I didn't know what to do with the materials of the story.
The story certainly is not perfect now.
But I finally reached a point where I felt that it was largely successful in terms of getting across what I wanted to get across.
So much of writing for me seems to be unconscious.
For probably the first two years of writing that story, I had no idea what the story was actually about.
What I've come to believe it's about is not anything as simple as the horrors of nuclear war or anything quite that blatant.
But more I realized I was dealing with something different.
I was dealing with the guilt of the survivor.
I was dealing with the mental set of people who have lived on through some sort of holocaust when everyone else around them has died.
The obvious interpretation, well, you've been lucky.
You lived when all the others around you perished.
Don't you feel lucky?
And of course those survivors rarely do.
They go through a psychological syndrome in which they feel guilty because they lived and others died.
And the question was, how does a person cope with that?
And that was the problem that I was attacking in this particular story.
One of the things that pleased me about the story was that it finally sold outside the science fiction community.
I mean, it is a science fiction story, I suppose.
It takes place in a speculative future.
Yet it sold outside of science fiction.
It was published in a non-science fiction magazine, specifically Penthouse.
And then such things happened to it as a student filmmaker at UCLA who doesn't read science fiction ordinarily,
read that story, wrote to me through my agent and said,
you know, I'm blown away by this particular image.
I would like to do a film based on the story.
The man has done that film.
It took him two and a half years to do the film, you know, waiting on tables.
It was a senior project.
I got to see the film in its final cut last September and was incredibly impressed.
It was a very professional job.
Aside from the fact that that filmmaker has, I think, a very bright career ahead of him,
this was the first time that I'd seen my work on the screen in any form.
And there was that magic, virginal moment when for the very first time I saw words that I had written,
dialogue that I had created, characters that I had described up there in living color on a huge screen,
talking and acting and interacting.
And that was a separate magic in itself.
But I think that the reason that the first of my stories to go to film was that one,
just because of the power of the original image.
It struck people and still strikes people and I'm glad for that.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's by far my favorite.
Okay, let me ask this one and then we'll stop on this one, but I got to ask about sharks.
Why sharks? What's your interest in sharks?
Why sharks?
You know, when people visit my apartment, they see all sorts of shark paraphernalia,
you know, jaws mounted on backboards and shark mobiles, shark paintings and so forth and so on.
The reason for the shark motif and the reason that I suppose I've adopted the shark as a sort of totem
is because in the early 70s, one of my closest friends had dreamed the night before,
and she told me about this at breakfast, that she had been in the body of a shark.
She had seen the world through shark colored lenses.
And we talked about this for a while, you know, got past the obvious Freudian symbolism of it all.
And I was fascinated by the dream.
Then she catalyzed action by saying, listen, why don't you write a story about sharks?
Now, I didn't know anything about sharks.
I was just an inland boy who'd grown up far from the sea,
and although the ocean is always fascinated me, I didn't know about sharks.
But I did my research, just as with say particle theory.
I found out about sharks.
I became intrigued by their position in the evolutionary scheme of things, how incredibly well developed they are.
And I was also struck by such images as the fact that the shark is the major species of creature,
which is hostile to human beings, which is in no danger of extinction, at least at this point.
So I took my friend's original dream, and I said, OK, I've got a character who wants to be a shark.
Why does she want to be a shark?
How does she become a shark, both metaphorically and literally?
And that's how the original shark story generated.
I realized after finishing the story that there were other things that involved sharks
that I had not dealt with in the story that I would treat in various other pieces.
What happened then, of course, was the older you get, I think the harder you are to shop for your friends and relatives.
They don't know what to get you.
They know what your tastes are.
They don't know what books you've read or what albums you don't have.
So somehow the shark story caught the fancy of the people around me,
and I started giving me shark paraphernalia.
Before I knew it, I had more sharks than I knew what to do with.
I'm glad it was sharks because Jawsnaught was standing.
There never has been that much in the way of shark artifacts for sale.
If it had been unicorns or dragons, say, I would have been swamped completely and utterly,
and I could have knick-knack and Gigo garage sales.
But instead, I've got some pretty neat shark stuff.
I would say, though, that people ask me, do I really like sharks?
And I have to admit, I don't like sharks. Nobody likes sharks, but I respect sharks.
And sharks as an emblem, as a symbol, truly do fascinate me.
And I expect there will be other shark stories.
There may even be a shark novel.
What militates against a shark novel, of course, quite aside from any of my own feelings about writing a novel,
is I probably have to wait for the furor of Peter Benchley's Jaws to continue dying down.
Okay, let's let him go.